# Chapter 3 CPUs

- In this chapter:
    - CPU core components
    - CPU and memory
    - Varieties of CPUs
    - Select and Install a CPU
    - Troubleshoot CPU

- central processing unit (CPU) aka microprocessor. 


## Historical/Conceptual

### CPU Core Components

- billions of numbers processed a second
- start with Intel 8088

#### The Man in the Box

- CPU as man in the box
- external data bus (EDB) - represented by 8 lightbulbs


#### Registers

- worktable with 16 lights analogy
- register - Storage area inside the CPU used by the onboard logic to perform calculations. CPUs have many registers to perform different functions.

#### Clock

- clock cycle - Single charge to the clock wire (CLK) of a CPU, informing the CPU that another piece of information is waiting to be processed

- clock speed - The maximum number of clock cycles that a CPU can handle in a given period of time, measured in MHz or GHz. In modern CPUs, the internal speed is a multiple of the external speed.


- clock wire (CLK) - A specka wire that, when charged, tells the CPU that another piece of information is waiting to be processed.

- clock-multiplying CPU CPU that takes the incoming clock signal and multiplies it inside the CPU to let the internal circuitry of the CPU run faster

#### Back to the External Data Bus

#### Memory

#### Memory and Ram

#### Address Bus

#### How Many Patterns?

#### Metric System and Computer Memory

#### Which Pattern Goes to Which Row?

## 1001

### Modern CPUs

#### Developers

##### Intel

##### AMD


### Model Names


### Microarchitecture


### Desktop Vs Mobile

### Technology

### Clock Multipliers


### 64-Bit Processing

### Virtualization Support

### Parallel Execution

### Multicore Processing

### Integrated Memory Controller

### Integrated Graphics Processing Unit

### Security

### Selecting and Installing CPUs

#### Selecting a CPU

#### Deciphering Processor Numbers

#### Installation Issues

#### Socket Types

#### Cooling


#### Overclocking


### Troubleshooting CPUs

#### Symptoms of Overheating
#### Catastrophic Failure

## Beyond A+